so as we all know form of the wine is
the pinnacle of technology in
motorsports as I'm sure you've all seen
on TV and in magazines there are lots of
pictures of Formula one cars wouldn't it
be really cool if we took a Formula One
car can split it and opened it just like
an apple here at the Sabbath wanting
that's exactly what we've done we put a
car straight down the center line it
stainless two years here it is one of
the challenging points of designing a
form of the one car a positioning and
packaging all the compounds that make
the form of the one car work here you
can see all these components and how
they're positioned on the car just
starting at the rear we've got the
gearbox we've got the clutch we've got
the engine got the oil tank you've got
the fuel system here we've got all the
electronic boxes and then moving up to
the front we've got all the pedals and
the steering system now it's very
important on a formula 1 car that we
keep all the weight very loathe this
reduces the center of gravity of the car
and brings us performs this is the car
steering system we start with a steering
wheel clearly it's not just the steering
wheel it also doubles up as the drivers
interface to the rest of the car and
also to the pits in the back of the
steering wheel we have the gearshift
paddles and also the paddle to lift the
clutch on the front there are many
buttons to talk to the guys in the pit
lane to change engine settings to save
fuel more power and in the middle
there's a little computer screen which
tells him if there's any problems with
the car it's split times all sorts of
really useful data for him from the
steering wheel would come down the
steering column the thin wall carbon
tube which has quite torturous route as
it comes down through the car it has to
come through the pedals turning angle
and then come down to the steering
system the steering system is actually a
very simple steering system due to
regulations and very similar to that
that you have on the road car obviously
a lot smaller and lighter
here we have the driver's seat obviously
where the driver sits and then
immediately behind him probably 50
millimeters away is where we store the
highly firewall fuel in the fuel cell
this is a Kevlar fuel system and as you
can see we have lots of horizontal
baffles in there now if we didn't have
these horizontal baffles the fuel would
surge around particularly the breaking
with a high IG there was any cornering
in each of the baffles the little flat
files which allow the fuel to go down
another so as the fuel fueled rains fuel
could never come above one of these
horizontal baffles by doing this you
keep the center gravity as always as low
as possible there are also lots of pipes
and pumps in here these are positioned
strategically to feed the engine while
also allowing the fuel cell to breathe
we've spoken about all the technical
components on the car and how we
position them and package them I guess
the final piece of the jigsaw now is to
position the driver some say he's the
most important part of the car so we're
so let's get him in it's important to
refit you are not in a normal position
you have a lot of forces especially in a
crash I had a big accident last year in
in Monaco so we we quite know that it's
a safe car should we get you in then of
course you shouldn't comfy well I know
this how it looks as I told you not a
very comfortable position to be sitting
in two hours we spoke about getting all
the components as low down on the cars
as as possible obviously your new
edition of the component to it so as you
can see your sort of backside is ten
millimeters away from the tarmac not
sure which obviously you know you feel
when you're when you're racing in the
car it's usually a good gauge to tell as
if the car is too low because their
backside maybe gets a little bit more
yeah are still there fear small touch ya
back there yeah
safety is obviously paramount in Formula
One obviously if anything does happen we
have a fire extinguisher system on the
car which sits here we can either be
activated by the driver all the marshals
at the track the actual chassis is one
big safe haven for the driver we make
the chassis from carbon honeycomb so
it's very very strong and very light
there are many other safety features on
the car such as the head padding to stop
the driver's head getting injured we
have crushed structures above the
driver's head in front of the driver and
then as we moved down the car we have a
crash sermon at the front all this
packaging that we've spoken about takes
it very difficult to try and find
anywhere for my apple to fit other than
this huge void at the front which has to
be reserved for the front full frontal
crash test and so anyway I hope you've
enjoyed your tour of a cutaway sour f1
car thank you very much
you